# Exploration Ideas

Here's a list of ideas for you to try on your own! Treat them as starting points for exploration.  Do not worry too much about making something that you think "sounds good."  Instead, focus on experimenting and learning.  Try to build your intuition for what is happening and why.  Use scopes to investigate signals.  Try adding in attenuators and VCAs to control modulation.  Have fun!  Be open to getting lost in the process.

- Use a mixer to combine two sequences of different lengths. You will need to use two Seq-3 modules.  Send the mixed result to a quantizer and then to an oscillator. 

- Make sure that two VCOs start out at the same frequency before they are fed any sequence.  Then use two rows of one sequencer to control the two separate VCO's pitches.    Use a separate quantizer for each row (try setting the quantizers to use the same notes as each other first, then try different notes). You will need to use a mixer to combine the two VCOs (see Lab 6.6).
- Make sure that two VCOs start out at the same frequency before they are fed any sequence.  Use one row of a sequencer to control the pitch of two separate VCOs - patch one copy of the row to a quantizer and then to the VCO's V/oct input.  Patch the other copy of the sequence through an attenuverter before sending it to a quantizer, and then on to the second VCO.  Make sure the quantizers have the same set of notes active. You will need to send the VCOs to a mixer to combine them. What happens when you use the attenuverter to alter the sequence - and even invert it! - before it reaches the second VCO?
- Use an LFO to speed a sequencer up and slow it down.
- Use the internal clock on a Seq-3.  Patch one row of the sequencer to its clock speed input.   Use this row to control how long the sequencer stays on each step - when the sequencer arrives at a step, it will speed up or slow down its clock according to the knob in the row's active step.
- Try using a voltage controlled ADSR envelope generator - for instance, the ADSR made by the VCV brand. Use LFOs to modulate various parameters - you may wish to attenuate the LFOs before sending them to their target parameter!
- Try mixing a very slow LFO with a sequence.  Send the mixed values to a quantizer, and use the quantizer's output to control a VCO's pitch.  Listen as the entire sequence is transposed up and down.
- Use two separate mixers to combine a single sequence with two separate LFOs moving at different (very slow) rates.  Send the output of the two separate mixers to two separate quantizers, which control the pitch of two different VCOs (try setting the quantizers to use the same notes as each other first, then try different notes). You will need to use another mixer to combine the two VCOs.
- Add a VCA and envelope generator to any of the above ideas.  Use them to control the volume of an oscillator so that it creates notes with defined beginnings/middles/ends.  If oscillators are already going into voltage controlled mixers, you will not need to add an additional VCA.  Some of the above ideas may already have suitable clock sources to excite your envelope generators.  Others may require adding a clock source!
- Try using one row of a sequencer to control the pitch of an oscillator (perhaps through a quantizer first) and another row to control the volume.
- Use an LFO square wave clock to drive a sequencer.  Use the same clock to excite an envelope generator which opens and closes a VCA that a VCO is passing through.  Use one row of the sequencer to control the the pitch (perhaps through a quantizer) of the VCO.  Use another row to control either the pulse width of the clock or the release time on a voltage-controlled envelope generator.
- Use one clock source to drive both a sequencer and an envelope generator.  Patch the envelope generator's output to the *main* input of a VCA.  Patch the output from one row on the sequencer to the CV input on the VCA.  What is that row of the sequencer going to control?  Use a scope to figure it out!  Then patch the output of the VCA to another VCA's CV input.  Patch a VCO to the second VCAs main input.  Use the second row on the sequencer to control the pitch of the VCO (perhaps via a quantizer).
- Repeat the previous example, but try adding another envelope passing through a VCA whose peak amplitude is controlled by the third row of the sequencer.  Patch this envelope amplitude-shaped envelope to the FM input on the VCO.  If the envelope is set to have a super short attack and decay (with sustain level set to 0V), then the third row of the sequencer can control which steps have percussive impacts!